now let's do something a little sneaky
suppose I have a class called puzzle and
has two overloaded methods one is peak
which peaks at list 61 B's and it prints
out the last item in a list 61 be I also
have a method called peak which takes s
lists and prints up the first item so my
puzzle for you is as follows suppose I
have a variable of static type s list s
P and I set it equal to a new s list
okay so it's dynamic type is also s list
then I create a variable of static type
list 61 B and then give it dynamic type
s list and they're pointing at the same
object and we fill in elk are cool so if
I call the method peak SP and I call the
method Peak LP the question for you is
which of these methods get called in
other words what gets printed so think
about that for maybe thirty Seconds to a
minute or however long you want I mean
that's not live lecture where I make
people take a certain amount okay so we
just did all this work and we said okay
well you know if there's like
overwriting data data we just use the S
list class so obviously it's obviously
just gonna be let's see the s list so
it's gonna print out L twice okay nope
wrong so why well Josh you should be
complaining I thought you just told me
that there's a simple set of rules and
you'll set me straight and I won't get
confused well I tricked you a little bit
this is overloading and what we did
before was overriding and I want to draw
this distinction in the tricky way
because I think this is where students
get confused okay so what happened here
well when it comes to overloading we
don't do dynamic method selection
instead when the compiler compiles the
code it says okay here's a peek method
alright there's one here that matches
the signature it just says I know I have
an S list a variable aesthetic type s
list so I'm gonna call s list when I get
to this point the compiler also says
well when I get to this point in the
code I'm gonna compare the signatures
I'm gonna say I have
a method for lists and a static type
variable list so I'm going to do that
when I get there
so other words the compiler before it
starts running decide this is what it
wants it wants to call the s list
oriented method up top and the list 61b
at the bottom and by the time the code
actually runs we get elk and cool right
so let's draw the distinction between
overriding and overloading dynamic
method selection only happens for
overridden methods and that happens
whenever an instance method of the
subtype overrides some method and the
super type so for example with s list we
had print and that overrode a method in
the list 61 Bay B interface so print is
a great example make noise for animals
maybe so that's overwriting
so if I ask a variable like I have a
pointer to a variable and I asked that
class itself hey would you like to do
something it will say great I got it I'm
gonna use the most specialized method I
have available this does not occur for
overloaded methods so this is for
example in a class has two methods or
three methods or whatever one for the
super type and one for the subtype okay
so here I have s lists list 61 be set
and so forth and so in this case even
though this is a subtype of this super
type if I call peak with overloading we
use exactly what we say we want okay
let's just have Java was design I think
it's actually a pretty sensible reason
but we won't pick it apart in this
lecture now there's obviously
interactions between these on the
discussion worksheet number four this
will be available there's also some
guerilla section work you can do to
understand this better but those are the
basic rules dynamic method selection
happens for overriding not overloading
and that's pretty much as deep as it
needs to be